# Bookmarks

Bookmarks (Marks for short) are names for Snapshots that you want to remember.
Marking them gives them gives them a name, and allows annotations to be associated with them.
Each Mark points to 0 or 1 snapshots.
Two Marks can point to the same Snapshot, but 2 marks in the same space cannot have the same name.

Marks are the mutable type in Got.
They represent entrypoints to the Snapshot DAG.
A Mark can go from pointing to one Snapshot to another.
But a Snapshot is immutable, any changes would require making a new Snapshot.

## Data Structure Config
All the parameters that could affect the Snapshots and their Filesystems are contained in a single JSON value called the data structure config (DSConfig).
Each mark contains a data structure config, which is used when constructing new Snapshots.

One of the values in the DSConfig is the salt.
The salt is used to derive encryption keys, but it is not used to encrypt anything directly.
If an attacker knows the salt, they can check for the existence of arbitrary plaintext in a Volume.
However they cannot perform decryption on values that they do not already know.
It can be all zeros for public data, that everyone is expected to read.
By default it is set to a random value.
When a new Mark is created by forking, the salt from the existing Mark is copied to the new Mark.
This means that any new Snapshots or Filesystems created for that Mark will be able to share underlying data.
If the salt changed, then adding a small amount of data to the Filesystem would require making a separate, reencrypted copy of previous filesystem.
