# Commits

Commits are the unit of version control in Got.
They associate metadata with a Filesystem.
They are immutable, and are defined by their hash, any change to a Commit is definitionally another commit.

Commits contain the following information:
- Who              hash of a public key
- What             [a GotFS filesystem](./2.6_Filesystems.md)
- When             a [TAI64N](https://cr.yp.to/libtai/tai64.html timestamp and a critical distance monotonic counter
- After What       N previous commits by hash
- Extra            Commits have arbitrary JSON metadata

## DAG
Commits form a directed acyclic graph (DAG).
The initial commit is a sink node, containing no references to other Commits.
From then on, everytime a set of changes is committed into a Commit, the Commits will contain at least one reference to a parent Commit.
This continues in a chain.
If two branches fork off from the same Commit, accumulate more independent Commits, then merge back together, they have to be reconciled.
To record the fact that a reconcilation happened, the resulting Commit will have more than one parent.
This allows for both histories to be captured.

## Ancestry
The set of all nodes which can be reached from a Commit is called its Ancestry.
This is sometimes called the *transitive closure* of a vertex in a graph, and in that case the Commit itself is included in the set.
If a Commit has another Commit in it's ancestry, that means it knows how to transitition from that Commit to itself.
